OSDOCS-3917:Installing and Configuring the Network Observability operator (#53263)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/network-observability-loki-install.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:

// * installing-operators.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-loki-installation_{context}"]

.Prerequisites

* Installed Loki Operator version 5.6, which allows the ability to specify a `network` tenant for Loki. The `network` tenant uses a specific tenant mode only implemented in version 5.6 of the Loki Operator. 
* Object storage, such as AWS S3
* {product-title} 4.10+
* Linux Kernel 4.18

//* <Any Loki install prerequisites for using with Network Observability operator?>

> == Installing the Loki Operator 

Reviewer: @jotak @mariomac @jpinsonneau what if Loki Operator is already installed on the cluster? does it need to be modified to work with NetObserv?

Reviewer: Hmmm, but if it is installed first, it won't be in `netobserv` namespace, which we recommend below - is this not needed?

Author: I think it is _just_ a recommendation, not a necessity. If you don't have it in the same namespace I think the main implication is that if you're following all our setup guidance, you'll have to make sure you specify your own namespace in all the areas where we've specified netobserv.

.Procedure

. Install the `LokiOperator` Operator:

.. In the {product-title} web console, click *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.

> .. Choose  *LokiOperator* from the list of available Operators, and click *Install*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Choose  *Loki Operator* from the list of available Operators, and click *Install*.
```

.. Under *Installation Mode*, select *All namespaces on the cluster*.

.. Under *Installed Namespace*, select *netobserv*.
+
It is recommended to deploy the Loki Operator in the same namespace as the Network Observability operator. If a namespace does not already exist, use the following command to create the`netobserv` namespace:
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ oc create ns netobserv
----
.. Select an *Approval Strategy*.
+
* The *Automatic* strategy allows Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) to automatically update the Operator when a new version is available.
+
* The *Manual* strategy requires a user with appropriate credentials to approve the Operator update.

.. Click *Install*.

> .. Verify that you installed the LokiOperator. Visit the *Operators* → *Installed Operators* page and look for *LokiOperator*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Verify that you installed the Loki Operator. Visit the *Operators* → *Installed Operators* page and look for *Loki Operator*.
```

.. Ensure that *Loki Operator* is listed with *Status* as *Succeeded* in all the projects.
+

> . Create a `Secret` YAML file. You can create this secret in the web colsole or CLI. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a `Secret` YAML file. You can create this secret in the web console or CLI. 
```

Author: Ugh..thanks

> .. Using the web console, navigate to the Imoport icon *+*, in the top right corner. Drop your YAML file into the editor. It is important to create this YAML file in the `netobserv` namespace that uses the `access_key_id` and `access_key_secret` fields to specify your base64-encoded AWS credentials. 

Reviewer 3: In fact, why not using the same example than the one from cluster-logging doc? It looks better to me, as we can read the `bucketnames` , `endpoint` and `region` fields (which btw is missing in our example), so it's easier for users to figure out what exactly to set in these fields

> .. Using the web console, navigate to the Imoport icon *+*, in the top right corner. Drop your YAML file into the editor. It is important to create this YAML file in the `netobserv` namespace that uses the `access_key_id` and `access_key_secret` fields to specify your base64-encoded AWS credentials. 

Reviewer 3: we just need to keep the metadata; that would be:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: loki-s3
  namespace: netobserv
stringData:
  access_key_id: AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
  access_key_secret: wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
  bucketnames: s3-bucket-name
  endpoint: https://s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com
  region: eu-central-1
```

And perhaps then we can remove the annotations 1/2/3/4 as it becomes more self-explanatory

> .. Using the web console, navigate to the Imoport icon *+*, in the top right corner. Drop your YAML file into the editor. It is important to create this YAML file in the `netobserv` namespace that uses the `access_key_id` and `access_key_secret` fields to specify your base64-encoded AWS credentials. 

Author: Okay, I will edit this accordingly.

Once you create the secret, you should see it listed under *Workloads* -> *Secrets* in the web console.
+
The following shows an example secret YAML file:
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: loki-s3
  namespace: netobserv
data:
  access_key_id: QUtJQUlPU0ZPRE5ON0VYQU1QTEUK <1>
  access_key_secret: d0phbHJYVXRuRkVNSS9LN01ERU5HL2JQeFJmaUNZRVhBTVBMRUtFWQo= <2>
  bucketnames: czMtYnVja2V0LW5hbWU= <3>

>   endpoint: aHR0cHM6Ly9zMy5ldS1jZW50cmFsLTEuYW1hem9uYXdzLmNvbQ== <4>

Reviewer: Are these real secrets? cc @Amoghrd

Reviewer 2: actually the first thing I checked in that PR :rofl:

Reviewer 3: what about using this access key instead: 
`SUxPVkVORVRPQlNFUlYK` 😇

----
<1> Base64-encoded access key id
<2> Base64-encoded access key secret
<3> Base64-encoded bucket name
<4> Base64-encoded S3 API endpoint
 
. Specify authentication and authorization configurations by defining `ClusterRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding`. You can create a YAML to define these roles.

> .. Using the web console, navigate to the Imoport icon *+*, in the top right corner. Drop your YAML file into the editor and click *Create*: 

Author: Addressed

+
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: loki-netobserv-tenant
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - 'loki.grafana.com'
  resources:
  - network
  resourceNames:
  - logs
  verbs:
  - 'get'
  - 'create'
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: loki-netobserv-tenant
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: loki-netobserv-tenant
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount

>   name: flowlogs-pipeline-transformer  <1>

Author: Ok I ironed out this difference in a callout.

// Module included in the following assemblies:

> // * installing-operators.adoc

Reviewer 4: Add the full directory path.

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-loki-installation_{context}"]
= Installing the Loki Operator

.Prerequisites

* Installed Loki, recommended to install Loki using the link:https://catalog.redhat.com/software/containers/openshift-logging/loki-rhel8-operator/622b46bcae289285d6fcda39[Loki Operator version 5.6], which allows the ability to specify a `network` tenant for Loki. The `network` tenant uses a specific tenant mode only implemented in version 5.6 of the Loki Operator. 
* Object storage, such as AWS S3
* {product-title} 4.10+

> * Linux Kernel 4.18+

Reviewer 4: Since the first bullet point terminates with a period, the remaining bullet points should terminate with a period too.

There are several ways you can install Loki. One way is by installing the Loki Operator using the {product-title} web console Operator Hub.

.Procedure

. Install the `Loki Operator` Operator:

.. In the {product-title} web console, click *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.

.. Choose  *Loki Operator* from the list of available Operators, and click *Install*.

.. Under *Installation Mode*, select *All namespaces on the cluster*.

.. Verify that you installed the Loki Operator. Visit the *Operators* → *Installed Operators* page and look for *Loki Operator*.

.. Verify that *Loki Operator* is listed with *Status* as *Succeeded* in all the projects.
+
. Create a `Secret` YAML file. You can create this secret in the web console or CLI. 

> .. Using the web console, navigate to the Import icon ,*+*, in the top right corner. Drop your YAML file into the editor. It is important to create this YAML file in the `netobserv` namespace that uses the `access_key_id` and `access_key_secret` to specify your credentials. 

Reviewer 4: For source code clarity, I would add a carriage return before .. Using.

// Module included in the following assemblies:

// * installing-operators.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-loki-installation_{context}"]

.Prerequisites

* Installed Loki, recommended to install Loki using the Operator version 5.6, which allows the ability to specify a `network` tenant for Loki. The `network` tenant uses a specific tenant mode only implemented in version 5.6 of the Loki Operator. 
* Object storage, such as AWS S3
* {product-title} 4.10+

> * Linux Kernel 4.18

Reviewer 3: sorry for the late comment about it, but it should be `4.18+` (higher versions are fine)

Author: Seriously no apologies needed :)

// * installing-operators.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="network-observability-loki-installation_{context}"]
= Installing the Loki Operator

.Prerequisites

* Installed Loki, recommended to install Loki using the Operator version 5.6, which allows the ability to specify a `network` tenant for Loki. The `network` tenant uses a specific tenant mode only implemented in version 5.6 of the Loki Operator. 
* Object storage, such as AWS S3
* {product-title} 4.10+
* Linux Kernel 4.18+

//* <Any Loki install prerequisites for using with Network Observability operator?>

There are several ways you can install Loki. One way is by installing the Loki Operator using the {product-title} web console Operator Hub.

It is recommended to deploy the Loki Operator in the same namespace as the Network Observability operator. You can use the web console or CLI to create a namespace, or new project:

- Using the web console, navigate to the *Project: All Projects* dropdown and select *Create Project*. Name the project `netobserv` and click *Create*.
- Using the CLI, run the following command to create the`netobserv` namespace: 
+
[source, terminal]
----
$ oc create ns netobserv

> ----

Reviewer 3: @stleerh @memodi @skrthomas  maybe I missed a discussion, but is it really what we recommend: to install the *operator* in `netobserv` namespace? And Loki Operator too?

Or is there a confusion between _where the operator is installed_ and _where the corresponding stack is deployed_ ?

While this procedure probably works well, I wouldn't say it's recommended or even desirable (the Loki _operator_ is not tied to NOO ; only the _LokiStack_ instance is)

So to me it would be better to say, roughly: install the two operators (we don't really care where, just use the defaults); then create a `netobserv` project to install the `LokiStack` and use that namespace for `FlowCollector` as well.

The sentence:
> It is recommended to deploy the Loki Operator in the same namespace as the Network Observability operator.

Should be rewritten something like:
> It is recommended to deploy the `LokiStack` in the same namespace referred in `FlowCollector` `spec.namespace`.

Reviewer 3: In fact I'm not even sure we can install the operator itself in another namespace .. I looked at it this morning and I didn't see the option proposed using the console

Author: Yes I think this is confusion on my part. In Steven's video I noticed the LokiStack was in the `netobserv` namespace and also mentioned when creating the netobserv project that we would be putting all our operator items in that project. 

Moreover, I think this information about `LokiStack` needs to be relocated to modules/network-observability-lokistack-create.adoc. 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/77501157/208941340-91e5c285-a280-4ad5-8cbe-201747e4040d.png)

.Procedure

. Install the `Loki Operator` Operator:

.. In the {product-title} web console, click *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.

.. Choose  *Loki Operator* from the list of available Operators, and click *Install*.

.. Under *Installation Mode*, select *All namespaces on the cluster*.

> .. Under *Installed Namespace*, select *netobserv*.

Reviewer 3: Given what I wrote above, I think we should remove this line
